docs/storage.rst, before:

..
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2015 Eric Larson

  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

====================
 Storing Cache Data
====================

CacheControl comes with a few storage backends for storing your
cache'd objects.


DictCache
=========

The `DictCache` is the default cache used when no other is
provided. It is a simple threadsafe dictionary. It doesn't try to do
anything smart about deadlocks or forcing a busted cache, but it
should be reasonably safe to use.

Also, the `DictCache` does not transform the request or response
objects in anyway. Therefore it is unlikely you could persist the
entire cache to disk. The converse is that it should be very fast.


FileCache
=========

The `FileCache` is similar to the caching mechanism provided by
httplib2_. It requires `filelock`_ be installed as it prevents
multiple threads from writing to the same file at the same time.

.. note::

  Note that you can install this dependency automatically with pip
  by requesting the *filecache* extra: ::

    pip install cachecontrol[filecache]

Here is an example using the `FileCache`: ::

  import requests
  from cachecontrol import CacheControl
  from cachecontrol.caches.file_cache import FileCache

  sess = CacheControl(requests.Session(),
                      cache=FileCache('.web_cache'))


The `FileCache` supports a `forever` flag that disables deleting from
the cache. This can be helpful in debugging applications that make
many web requests that you don't want to repeat. It also can be
helpful in testing. Here is an example of how to use it: ::

  forever_cache = FileCache('.web_cache', forever=True)
  sess = CacheControl(requests.Session(), forever_cache)

SeparateBodyFileCache
=====================

This is similar to ``FileCache``, but far more memory efficient, and therefore recommended if you expect to be caching large downloads.
``FileCache`` results in memory usage that can be 2× or 3× of the downloaded file, whereas ``SeparateBodyFileCache`` should have fixed memory usage.

The body of the request is stored in a separate file than metadata, and streamed in and out.

It requires `filelock`_ be installed as it prevents multiple threads from writing to the same file at the same time.

.. note::

  You can install this dependency automatically with pip
  by requesting the *filecache* extra: ::

    pip install cachecontrol[filecache]

Here is an example of using the cache::

  import requests
  from cachecontrol import CacheControl
  from cachecontrol.caches SeparateBodyFileCache

  sess = CacheControl(requests.Session(),
                      cache=SeparatedBodyFileCache('.web_cache'))

``SeparateBodyFileCache`` supports the same options as ``FileCache``.


RedisCache
==========

The `RedisCache` uses a Redis database to store values. The values are
stored as strings in redis, which means the get, set and delete
actions are used. It requires the `redis`_ library to be installed.

.. note::

  Note that you can install this dependency automatically with pip
  by requesting the *redis* extra: ::

    pip install cachecontrol[redis]

The `RedisCache` also provides a clear method to delete all keys in a
database. Obviously, this should be used with caution as it is naive
and works iteratively, looping over each key and deleting it.

Here is an example using a `RedisCache`: ::

  import redis
  import requests
  from cachecontrol import CacheControl
  from cachecontrol.caches.redis_cache import RedisCache


  pool = redis.ConnectionPool(host='localhost', port=6379, db=0)
  r = redis.Redis(connection_pool=pool)
  sess = CacheControl(requests.Session(), RedisCache(r))

This is primarily a proof of concept, so please file bugs if there is
a better method for utilizing redis as a cache.

Third-Party Cache Providers
===========================

* cachecontrol-django_ uses Django's caching mechanism.
* cachecontrol-uwsgi_ uses uWSGI's caching framework.



.. _httplib2: https://github.com/httplib2/httplib2
.. _filelock: https://github.com/tox-dev/py-filelock
.. _requests 2.1: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/community/updates/#id2
.. _redis: https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py
.. _cachecontrol-django: https://github.com/glassesdirect/cachecontrol-django
.. _cachecontrol-uwsgi: https://github.com/etene/cachecontrol-uwsgi

Commit message:

docs: update docs to cacheyou (#8)

docs/storage.rst, after:

..
  SPDX-FileCopyrightText: SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2015 Eric Larson

  SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

====================
 Storing Cache Data
====================

CacheYou comes with a few storage backends for storing your
cache'd objects.


DictCache
=========

The `DictCache` is the default cache used when no other is
provided. It is a simple threadsafe dictionary. It doesn't try to do
anything smart about deadlocks or forcing a busted cache, but it
should be reasonably safe to use.

Also, the `DictCache` does not transform the request or response
objects in anyway. Therefore it is unlikely you could persist the
entire cache to disk. The converse is that it should be very fast.


FileCache
=========

The `FileCache` is similar to the caching mechanism provided by
httplib2_. It requires `filelock`_ be installed as it prevents
multiple threads from writing to the same file at the same time.

.. note::

  Note that you can install this dependency automatically with pip
  by requesting the *filecache* extra: ::

    pip install cacheyou[filecache]

Here is an example using the `FileCache`: ::

  import requests
  from cacheyou import CacheControl
  from cacheyou.caches.file_cache import FileCache

  sess = CacheControl(requests.Session(),
                      cache=FileCache('.web_cache'))


The `FileCache` supports a `forever` flag that disables deleting from
the cache. This can be helpful in debugging applications that make
many web requests that you don't want to repeat. It also can be
helpful in testing. Here is an example of how to use it: ::

  forever_cache = FileCache('.web_cache', forever=True)
  sess = CacheControl(requests.Session(), forever_cache)

SeparateBodyFileCache
=====================

This is similar to ``FileCache``, but far more memory efficient, and therefore recommended if you expect to be caching large downloads.
``FileCache`` results in memory usage that can be 2× or 3× of the downloaded file, whereas ``SeparateBodyFileCache`` should have fixed memory usage.

The body of the request is stored in a separate file than metadata, and streamed in and out.

It requires `filelock`_ be installed as it prevents multiple threads from writing to the same file at the same time.

.. note::

  You can install this dependency automatically with pip
  by requesting the *filecache* extra: ::

    pip install cacheyou[filecache]

Here is an example of using the cache::

  import requests
  from cacheyou import CacheControl
  from cacheyou.caches SeparateBodyFileCache

  sess = CacheControl(requests.Session(),
                      cache=SeparatedBodyFileCache('.web_cache'))

``SeparateBodyFileCache`` supports the same options as ``FileCache``.


RedisCache
==========

The `RedisCache` uses a Redis database to store values. The values are
stored as strings in redis, which means the get, set and delete
actions are used. It requires the `redis`_ library to be installed.

.. note::

  Note that you can install this dependency automatically with pip
  by requesting the *redis* extra: ::

    pip install cacheyou[redis]

The `RedisCache` also provides a clear method to delete all keys in a
database. Obviously, this should be used with caution as it is naive
and works iteratively, looping over each key and deleting it.

Here is an example using a `RedisCache`: ::

  import redis
  import requests
  from cacheyou import CacheControl
  from cacheyou.caches.redis_cache import RedisCache


  pool = redis.ConnectionPool(host='localhost', port=6379, db=0)
  r = redis.Redis(connection_pool=pool)
  sess = CacheControl(requests.Session(), RedisCache(r))

This is primarily a proof of concept, so please file bugs if there is
a better method for utilizing redis as a cache.

Third-Party Cache Providers
===========================

* cachecontrol-django_ uses Django's caching mechanism.
* cachecontrol-uwsgi_ uses uWSGI's caching framework.



.. _httplib2: https://github.com/httplib2/httplib2
.. _filelock: https://github.com/tox-dev/py-filelock
.. _requests 2.1: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/community/updates/#id2
.. _redis: https://github.com/andymccurdy/redis-py
.. _cachecontrol-django: https://github.com/glassesdirect/cachecontrol-django
.. _cachecontrol-uwsgi: https://github.com/etene/cachecontrol-uwsgi
